Add example of serving LLM with Ray Serve and vLLM (#45325)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/tutorials/vllm-example.md

---
orphan: true
---

(serve-vllm-tutorial)=

# Serve a Large Language Model with vLLM

> This example runs a Large Language model with Ray Serve using [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/), a popular open-source library for serving LLMs. It uses the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api) which can be used to easily integrate with other LLM tools. The example also demonstrates how to set-up multi-GPU serving with Ray Serve using placement groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example runs a large language model with Ray Serve using [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/), a popular open-source library for serving LLMs. It uses the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api) which easily integrates with other LLM tools. The example also demonstrates how to set up multi-GPU serving with Ray Serve using placement groups.
```

To run this example, install the following:

```bash
pip install "ray[serve]" requests vllm
```

This example uses the [NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) model. Save the following code to a file named llm.py.

The Serve code is as follows:
```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/vllm_openai_example.py
:caption: llm.py
:language: python
:start-after: __serve_example_begin__
:end-before: __serve_example_end__
```

Use `serve run llm:build_app model="NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct" tensor-parallel-size=2` to start the Serve application.

:::{note}

> We are using tensor parallel size of 2 which means the model will be deployed to Ray Workers across 2 GPUs using placement groups in Ray Serve.

Reviewer: Can you use a more specific term than "worker". It's hard to tell what a Ray worker is in this context (is it a task? an actor? something else?).

---
orphan: true
---

(serve-vllm-tutorial)=

# Serve a Large Language Model with vLLM
This example runs a Large Language model with Ray Serve using [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/), a popular open-source library for serving LLMs. It uses the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api) which can be used to easily integrate with other LLM tools. The example also demonstrates how to set-up multi-GPU serving with Ray Serve using placement groups.

To run this example, install the following:

```bash

> pip install "ray[serve]" requests vllm

Reviewer 2: add version, or mention recommended version?

Author: should be fine to always use latest

```

> This example uses the [NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) model. Save the following code to a file named llm.py.
> 
> The Serve code is as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example uses the [NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) model. Save the following code to a file named llm.py:
```

Reviewer 3: I think there's a way to add a filename to the literalinclude but don't remember the syntax

Reviewer 4: Maybe try this `caption` option :)
https://devopstutodoc.readthedocs.io/en/stable/documentation/doc_generators/sphinx/rest_sphinx/code/literalinclude/literalinclude.html#caption

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/vllm_openai_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __serve_example_begin__
:end-before: __serve_example_end__
```

Use `serve run llm:deployment model="NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct" tensor-parallel-size=2` to start the Serve application.

:::{note}

> We are using tensor parallelism of 2 which means the model will be deployed to Ray Workers across 2 GPUs using placement groups in Ray Serve.

Reviewer 3: nit: "tensor parallelism" is used here but "tensor-parallel-size" above, make them standard
